Please welcome to the stage Willow Bay,
Dean of the USC Annenberg School for
Communication and Journalism, and
controlling owner of Angel City FC for a
live taping of The Deal with Bloomberg's
Jason Kelly [music] and Alex Rodriguez.
All right. Welcome. Thank you, but that
was a very quiet response from this
audience.
>> I know. Well, Very quiet.
>> I mean, are there any Angel City fans in
the house?
>> Yeah. Fans here. Yeah, there we go. All
right. Well, we're so excited to have
all of y'all here for a live taping of
The Deal, and we're especially excited
uh to have Willow here with us. So,
we're going to talk about lots of
different things. We're going to talk
some hoop, we're going to talk some
soccer, um obviously, but I want to
start with your day job, if we can,
Willow, as you were introduced, Dean of
the Annenberg School over over at USC.
We're at the Screen Time conference.
Clearly, there has been a lot of talk uh
today, every day these days, it seems,
around the First Amendment, free speech.
You're living this every day. Yep. Um
what are you saying to your students?
What are they saying to you? Yeah. So,
let me just start with one thing, which
is
day one fan of The Deal, Ah, thank you.
>> fan of The Deal, so thank you for having
me. So, yeah, free freedom of the press,
free speech, free expression, which
encompasses all of them, they're core
and central to what we do at USC and
what we do certainly at USC Annenberg,
where we teach journalism, public
relations, communication, and public
diplomacy. And related to that is
academic freedom, right? Which is the
freedom to teach, uh research, and study
um free from interference. And my day
job is to protect all of those things
for our students and and for our
faculty. We're not an ivory tower
institution. We're deeply connected to
our industries of practice. So, when
something hits the news, whether it's
Jimmy Kimmel and ABC, whether it's the
compact for academic excellence, which
is the letter that the Department of
Education has sent to a number of
schools, of which we are among them, or
even the anniversary of October 7th,
when we had student protests on campus,
the news of the day is what informs what
goes on in the classrooms. Our faculty
toss out the agenda, they toss out their
syllabi for the day, and um and they get
into it. And I think at this moment, um
our students are really hungry for that.
They're asking powerful questions, and
we don't have the answers, but it is so
clear that right now, at this moment,
when we are
commodifying outrage, and all we hear is
shouting, that we create these spaces
where people across our university, and
certainly in our classrooms, can come
together and and wrestle with these
issues in thoughtful ways.
>> Yeah. Well, I appreciate your thoughtful
answer. Now, I'm going to undertake what
we call in this business a hard pivot.
Um
but one of the places that that does
feel mostly safe, I think you'd agree,
partner, is sports. You know, that we
can disagree, we can disagree, and uh I
think you're familiar with people
disagreeing about uh sports, uh Alex.
So,
let's go back, if we can, to your
career. Let's talk some hoop. So, the
first time I heard about Willow Bay was
I'm going to take you back to the the
great '90s, where such a fun era. And I
saw you for the first time on my buddy
Ahmad Rashad on Inside Stuff.
And in a funny way, now being an NBA
governor,
that's really when I first started fell
in love with the NBA.
It made a huge impact on me. It started
my passion. Did you understand the
impact it would make on that community
and fan base that still looks back at
that show as a a big pivotal point?
Look, I can't pretend to know the impact
it would have decades later.
I knew that it was an incredible moment,
an incredible front row seat to what was
going on. My first day on the job was
the day that Magic Johnson announced
that he was HIV positive. That was the
first day?
>> That was my first day, my first show
that happened. We actually had taped the
show, and we had to redo it. And it was
that was my first indication that buckle
up, you know, we're we're really um in
for a profound kind of cultural journey
as much as we were a sports journey. And
you know, when I look back on it now,
the two things were clear. David Stern
hired me, the NBA commissioner, and Adam
Silver, current commissioner, was was
just starting, so kind of grew up um
alongside Adam, who quickly became my
boss. Um but, you know, the two things
that David was really clear about with
that show was expanding the fan base,
right? To your point, that was the first
time you saw it, and that's why there
was a woman sitting there at the desk
week in and and week out, and not as a
sidekick, but as a partner, because he
wanted to open the sport up to young
people, and and certainly to women. And
the other the other piece of it, which
is the more, I think, obvious piece of
it was was really the first time on a
weekly basis we told the stories of
players and their lives off the court.
We had great highlights and great music.
It was really a a cultural moment, too.
But when you look at the through line
between those stories, that was the only
way you got those stories. It was the
way other players got those stories,
right? It wasn't just the audiences. Um
to today's era of, you know, the the
athlete as communicator-in-chief, right,
of their own brand, um you really see
just what a wise soul David Stern was.
Because I would imagine that it changes
the way you think about
media as an athlete. Is that a fair
assessment? If you're watching that, and
you're seeing these players, because
just a couple of years after that,
you're a professional athlete. How did
it change you? Yeah, I mean, I go back
to again to the '90s. I grew up with Mel
Allen and This Week in Sports, and you
get one opportunity on Saturdays to get
a recap of the whole week, while we're
all watching, you know, the score boxes,
and we remember those days when we would
get like get the paper and see what
Keith Hernandez and Darryl Strawberry
did.
And Inside Stuff was that. But
>> People are Googling right now. They're
like, "What is a score [laughter] box?"
It just kind of opened it up. When I
came in, I I I led with fear with media,
cuz I didn't feel like I had the tools.
And as I've, you know, the arc has gone
to where like I understand the media
could be an ally, and it's a very
powerful tool, and I think you started
that. You are the media now.
Remember. Yeah, you're the media. You're
sitting here. You're You're on this
couch now, not That's right. Um
well, into that point, just to go back
actually to to your day job, sort of
bringing it all together, you guys just
did some work around this. What did you
find about athlete-driven media? I've
been wanting to do an academic study on
the phenomenon that we've all been
watching unfold, which is athletes as
creators, athletes creating their own
content, but also owning the IP and
monetizing it. So, this is the first
academic study to um drop. Academics
don't really use the term drop, but I'm
going to teach them how to do that.
[laughter] Um and what it has
demonstrated is this is reshaping the
media ecosystem and the sports
storytelling ecosystem in very profound
ways, economically and culturally.
Athlete-owned media enterprises are
driving billions of dollars of value, um
and the athletes themselves as owners
are benefiting. It is driving
innovation, because they are using new
platforms and new storytelling formats
to connect with their um with their fans
in direct and and immediate ways. And
you will appreciate this, because now
you are the media, um it puts the
decision-making authority in the
athletes' hands. They get to decide what
stories they're going to tell, what
platform they're going to tell it on,
and how they're going to dis- distribute
it. And so, what I find so interesting
about that is you guys are now both
dealing with this as owners. You know,
you you dealt with this as an athlete.
Now you have
several very, very famous, in the news
every day athletes who play for your
teams in Minnesota. Oh, has a- Have any
of his players made news?
>> [laughter]
>> No, just a little bit. Um I I mean, I'll
say their names out loud. Anthony
Edwards and Napheesa Collier obviously
are out there in a in a very big way.
You're now dealing with this as the
owner of Angel City. So, let's talk
about what the responsibilities are as
an owner, and let's talk about you as an
owner. How did this deal, this is The
Deal, how did how did you come to this?
Um you know I love a good story, even
more so if it's a good business story,
and sits at the intersection of sports
and culture, and Angel City is a
phenomenal story in the way they
captured not just Los Angeles's
attention, but the world's attention
with this mission to drive equity on and
off the pitch. I had never imagined,
right, that I would be an owner. You
might have. I certainly didn't. And we
made the decision really quickly, my
co-owner
um and I. Um and but I was the one in
some ways who had the grounding, cuz I
used to take students there um every
year. I teach a sports um immersion
class in the spring, and every year we
would visit visit Angel City, cuz I
thought it was imperative that we make
sure we were centering women's sports in
the in the array of um sports entities
that we were exposing students to. So,
every year students would do a project
for them. And so, it was this very
intense snapshot of a startup year by
year, and the decisions they were making
from, you know, who's the first player
that we should hire to how can we
develop our sponsorship partners in a
way that aligns our community impact
with our player interests and values.
And when the opportunity arose,
I had that grounding combined with, you
know, what we were watching happen with
women's sports both at the college level
and at the professional level. And
you know, I literally said to Bob, do
you have any interest in doing this? And
he did not even pause and said,
"Absolutely." And we there we were in
the in the bidding process. Bob Iger is
my co-owner and partner in this. And
husband. And husband. Oh, right,
husband.
>> [laughter]
>> When you look at the deal and you
acquired it for about $250 million.
Are you looking at this as a double
bottom line? Like what can you do also
for the community? Or you just think
that this could be a three or four X in
the next five or 10 years? So, community
impact was embedded in the business
model.
Look, this was the biggest investment
we've ever made personally and and I
expect that it will continue that will
that will hold firm for quite some time.
Um so, the
what was so compelling
was the purpose embedded in the
business. So, one of the things that's
different about Angel City is that their
sponsorship model
directly invest 10% of sponsorship
dollars into the community. So, that's
not an add-on or nice-to-have. We didn't
wait till we were profitable to do that.
That was
very much built in to its business
equity on and off the pitch. And
by the time we got there, they had
invested roughly $3 million in the
community. We're at nearly 3 million
meals right through DoorDash and Sprouts
are our sponsors into the into the
community to people in need. So, this
was a this is a community asset. I think
it's a sort of jewel in the in the
sports universe of of Los Angeles.
And is there a bottom line? Yes.
Do we expect it to improve every year?
Yes. Are we on the march towards
profitability? Heck yes.
But this is really a community entity
with community at its core. You know,
it's interesting to have the two of you
sit between the two of you. I don't own
any sports teams just for just for
[laughter] the record, but you know, I
know people who do. It happens every
once in a while. It happens. But like
it's interesting to think about like
that perspective because you now own
basketball teams in in the NBA and the
WNBA.
How do you think about it from a bottom
line perspective? Because these are
these are not small amounts of money.
>> And and a community perspective cuz
you're getting to know a new community
also. How did I end up getting
double-teamed here?
>> [laughter]
>> Two journalists. I I think Willow, you
said it beautifully and just to bring
[clears throat] you back five years. I
mean, this was the time right after
COVID which people thought we overpaid
for $1.5 billion. And then you had
obviously the George Floyd tragedy.
So, when we acquired this team, it was a
pivotal moment in Minnesota that kind of
moved around the world. And we thought,
I've seen for 30 years how sports can
transform communities. And look, the
truth is when the Dodgers win, LA feels
a little bit more chipper. So, there's
not too many businesses like when your
Amazon stock goes down, you're not like
depressed. Well, you don't say we, you
just say my Amazon stock is depressed.
But when the Yankees or the Dodgers
lose, you say [snorts] we lost or we
won. So, I I have a good understanding
and I think knowing players, having
empathy for players, understanding how
difficult it is to be an athlete in 2025
far greater, far harder than when I
started in 1994 with all the social
media. My God, I got enough trouble
without social media.
>> [laughter]
>> And and so for you, Willow, you know,
this is yes, it's a community asset.
There are deals to be made. You know,
you there are players that you have to
negotiate with. There are sponsors that
you have to take care of. There's a
community. So, when you think about the
most important deals that you've done so
far, the ones that really stick out in
your mind, what what jumps to mind? I
think look, the obviously, you know,
being in the privileged position to
acquire Angel City first and foremost
and taking on that extraordinary
opportunity and extraordinary
responsibility. But then I think about
what we did when we first arrived, which
is it was very clear that
we had not invested enough in our people
and our product, specifically our
athletes. So, we
opened a brand new state-of-the-art
training facility, which at its when we
did it was kind of the biggest and best
there was. I'm really hoping that's
changing because with every one of these
step-ups,
others follow, and which is what we
desperately need, right? We need we need
a significant level of investment
in in women athletes and in their
ability to perform. So, we did that and
then we got to work on the sporting
side, right? Hired a new GM and a new
coach because Alex, we would love to
make LA chipper the way a Yankees win
makes New York chipper and by bringing a
championship to the city. So,
that is one of the primary goals. But
also think thinking about our our
athletes as I know you do with with the
links, you know, we have we have
underinvested in women athletes for far
too long and this is the opportunity
this is the moment to change that by
making sure we are supporting them the
way we support all of our world-class
athletes and allow them to compete at
the at the highest level. So, Willow,
take this room into the governor's room,
the boardroom with the with with your
league. Are you a newer owner that kind
of pounds the table and screams or are
you kind of an owner that huge screamer.
>> [laughter]
>> Uh listens, asks more questions or yeah,
tell us about your style as a board
member. Um what's really fascinating is
the NWSL has a lot of new owners. So,
there are a lot of new voices and wildly
impressive voices in the room. And
what's interesting is there's a breadth
of perspectives. And I think um it is
clear that some of us have lanes and
mine is at least initially media and how
we think about our media partners, how
we think about our new deals, how we
think about really working with the
players, the teams, and the leagues to
be in alignment on our marketing and
storytelling strategies cuz there's a
lot of dis-
disalignment is easy. Alignments
alignments pretty hard even today in
kind of an always-on 24/7 media
environment. So, I think there's a lot
of very spirited discussion around the
table, but a fascinating number of
perspectives and areas of expertise come
to bear. A lot of them from outside the
world of sports.
And so, what are the deals that you
think the league and the sport need to
make? I mean, this has been a league
that's been on the move for for the past
few years.
You have investment in Europe coming.
You have a rising tide. But how do you
maintain what has been true that this is
the best women's soccer league in the
world? What what do you need to do? I
mean,
we first of all, we need to make sure
that we maintain our stature as the best
women's soccer league in the world. And
the reason that it's the best women's
soccer league in the world is because of
the level of our talent, which remains
superior. So, we have to continue to
ensure that we are the best place for
players to come. And that that's
certainly salary, but it's also all the
other things we do like the requirements
that we've put in place to have the kind
of training facilities, to have the kind
of technical teams and support staff in
place that we're creating opportunities
for them off the pitch.
Something that we really do at scale and
obviously something as somebody who
really cares about the talent pipeline,
I'm also doing at a at a team level and
and an individual level. So, first and
foremost thinking about our our athletes
and making sure that they have the
resources they need to compete, but also
making sure that we're the most
attractive place in the world for those
for those players to come.
And the other is is the I mean, I think
other on the agenda very high on the
agenda is you know, our media rights
deals.
Making sure we're driving the kind of
tune-in that we need to be driving, that
people understand where to find us on
the array of networks, which I know is a
theme that that that I'm I'm gratified
by the fact that the relatively small
NWSL and the and the massive NBA are
also having those conversations around
what's the right number of of platforms
to put our games on. So, I know we ran
out of time, but I have one selfish
question I want to ask you because as a
father,
you recently had a a panel with yourself
Mhm. um with Charlotte Jones from the
Cowboys, Jeanie Buss from the Lakers,
and some of my favorite people, Candace
Parker.
>> Candace Parker moderated, so it's
already like a
luminaries.
>> We also need more representation of
women and people of color
in the owners' room, executive level.
What advice would you give some young
ladies that want to be like you or like
Jeanie or Charlotte to have more
representation in this room?
>> The doors are wide open. Please come on
through and then it's up to us on the
other side of those doors to make make
these environments welcoming, productive
places to learn and grow and develop
because Alex, you're absolutely right. I
think I think not only do we need to
make sure the opportunity is there for
women, but we have massive growth
potential ahead of us. And the
trajectories are really steep and we
need a very robust talent pipeline
entering all of these
teams and leagues to really help us
propel that growth. Before we get away
from the the owners' box, the owners',
you know, the governors' table, as it
were,
is it what you expected it would be
being an owner? Because I never dreamt
of being an owner, I'm not sure I had
enormous expectations. And look, I've
had the privilege of knowing and working
with a number of commissioners. So, I
sort of have seen the world through
their lens and I've seen the world
through the media partner lens, but I've
you know, never been in the room before,
and it is it is fascinating. The
challenges come at you fast and furious
as as you're seeing,
um and it's a it is a learning
experience each and each and every day,
and you know, I think I'm grateful at
this age I can still be learning on the
job.
All right, so we're going to do our
rapid fire.
Um I would lose on Jeopardy, so don't
make them too rapid.
>> All right. All right, we're going to
bounce it back and forth. I'll start and
then Alex will pick up.
What is one word to describe your deal
making style?
Deliberate.
What's more important to you, gut or
data?
Gut.
Who's your dream deal making partner?
Bob Iger.
>> [laughter]
>> Mine, too. Um
He paid me very well.
>> Alex, we had our 30-year anniversary, we
had the Yankees game at the table. On
our wedding night, we had the Yankees
game on the television. I love it. I
love it. I love it.
>> It's working. What's the best piece of
advice you've ever received on deal
making or business?
So, on deal making,
um
don't squeeze your partner dry. Leave
something, let everybody walk away from
the table with their heads held high. Um
and then related to that is therefore
don't start at the extremes. Start a
little bit closer in and at a more
realistic place, so you save wear and
tear um on everybody.
What's the worst advice you've been
given? Um that I needed to change my
name if I was going to be taken
seriously in business. Ooh.
By somebody that I adore who was just
giving me some constructive
>> That must have been in the '70s. Um
what's
>> [laughter]
>> what's a deal you wish you had done?
Oh.
Deal I wish I had done. Well, look, my
kids would tell you any NBA team that
comes on the market that we didn't
actually buy, not that we could afford
it, we should have gone for and didn't.
So, I'm you know, I'm failing them left
and right.
>> [laughter]
>> I think it you know, I would I'd like
the the idea of Angel City as your
family business.
>> Yep, I do, too. I do, too. Uh who was
your favorite interview from NBA Inside
Stuff?
>> Never giving that one up. They're they
were all my favorites. I loved each and
every one the same. Wow. Okay. All
right. What's your hype song before big
meeting or negotiation?
Beyoncé, If I Were a Boy.
Um num but close second is the Leslie
Powell Angel City walk-on song. Here
they come. It's one of the best I think
it's the best in sports. We got to go
see that, Jeanie. Yeah, we got to do it.
I know somebody. Um you can only watch
one sport for the rest of your life,
what is it?
>> [sighs]
>> It's kind of a tie.
Soccer women's soccer, but basketball.
Basketball edges out just a little bit
more.
All right, so we usually ask if there's
one team that can win a title, which one
would it be? We would know the answer.
>> what that would be. We're going to win
Angel City, I promise.
>> is
what's the first thing you would do
after you win a title? Oh, that's so
bad. That was such a softball. That was
such a softball. You know that. No, I
don't.
>> to go to Disneyland.
>> [laughter]
>> I like that.
>> And yes, you are invited.
>> Yeah. All right. Willow Bay, you're a
treasure. Thank you so much. Thank you,
everyone.
>> [applause]
[music]